# Genetics of Race Analysis 
### BioSeq Group, Tufts University
##### **BioSeq Program Administrator:** Matt Fierman (bioseq@tufts.edu)
##### **Author:** Philip Braunstein (pbraunstein12@gmail.com)

### Introduction ###
This package is the analysis package for the Genetics of Race BioSeq project. Launching this script includes a front-end written in Tkinter, so that people unfamiliar with UNIX command line can use this analysis tool.

This program  incorporates the changes from the VCF files into the HVRI and HVRII reference files and concatenates these regions to create a unique signature of each person's mitchondrial DNA. 

### Setup ###
Put the config file and all of the VCF files in the same directory somewhere on your computer. The config file must be a CSV file. In this file, each line consists of two entries: the first is the name of the HVRI VCF file (without the .vcf extension) and the second is the name of the HVRII VCF file from the same sample. The config file **must** be named "config2.txt". Undefined behavior results from incorrectly formatted config files.

### Running the Analysis ###
The program will prompt the user to entry the location and name of the directory in which the VCF files and config files are located. The user must provide the complete path to this directory rather than a relative path.

### Output ###
The program will generate an output file named "gorOutput-UID.fasta" where UID is a guid generated by the program to prevent file-name clashes.

### Recommended Further Analysis ###
We recommend you upload the generated file to [Clustal Omega](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/clustalo/) to generate a distance matrix and phylogenetic tree from this analysis. The output file can be uploaded to this website with no modifications necessary. 

### Notes and Warnings ###
1. The config file **must** be named "config2.txt".
2. The HVRI and HVRII FASTA files must be in the same directory as the script when it is run
3. Undefined behavior results from incorrectly formatted config files

### Ongoing Development ###
1. Native Windows and Mac OSX Apps containing this analysis are currently in development.
2. We are interested in networking the app so that it sends the output file directly to Clustal.

Questions? Comments? Don't hesitate to contact us!